morning we have lots to do lots to do
but uh first I just want to show a very
good
video Chuck Norris doesn't paint with a
brush he paints with a
[Music]
gun I started thinking about the times
we should have had we don't talk much
anymore and this feeling is making me
sad but you did this to yourself cuz I
caugh you with a line now your world is
crushing down cuz you couldn't even give
me what I so you want to be my lady
tonight you really looking for a fight
well maybe maybe that's why we never
feel the same you really
with all right so there's that video and
then there's this video my giant wall
painting robot and so we're going to
obviously take this painting with a
paintball gun seriously and just see
about the costs and maybe how to do it
uh the thing is looking up the cost of
paintballs paintballs are not as cheap
as I would have expected so for 2,000 of
them is about $50 and that's sort of the
price that I've so if you get
2,000 for
$50
um and you want a 100x 100 image that's
10,000
pixels and you only want one color then
you're going to be spending $250 Al
loone on
paintballs so that's a little
expensive so and 100 by 100 picture is
like
pretty small small like that's like you
can't really make anything out with just
100 by 100 pixels
so now let's okay now let's
say now let's say that we wanted a
standard 1920 by 1080 so we're going to
do 1920 * 1080
o okay then this divided by
okay that's the
um um number of this we have to buy so
then you multiply that by the price and
you be spending $50,000 just on
paintballs to make a single image
so but there must be a way to get this
to work and this is a black and white
image so you'd really have to multiply
this by three so you spending $150,000
on paintballs just to make a single
image but the thing
is God I really want to be able to do
this
though but the pricing is just so
high let me ask Chad gbt see what
suggestions it has
I want to build a gun wait let's not
start with that that shoots paint
balls and has two axes of
rotation the goal would be to fire at a
canvas and produce an
image with the paint
balls um
I'm seeing
$50 for
2,000 of
paintballs Which is far too
high to make an image with
any good
resolution what are some ways I
can get around this let's see
yeah we'd have to
call yeah we could reach out to
people homemade
paintballs okay well I I
think
okay let's watch a
video I mean it's just compressed air
and then the ball forms the clog and
then when the pressure gets too high
right that that would be my
[Music]
expectation let's turn this back down
a hey guys today we're going over the
basic operation of the tippman A5 marker
although the diagram shows an
A5 can be applied to the X7 blowback 98
Custom and US Army line of markers such
as the Alpha Black Project Salvo and
Carver 1 they may appear different on
the outside but on the inside the guts
are almost identical and you may often
find that the parts are interchangeable
from marker to marker depending on the
model some of you may already be
familiar with meth's animation but I've
painstakingly converted it over to flash
so that we can get better understanding
of the mechanics of the marker so let's
begin once a tank is connected to the
ASA or air source adapter air will enter
into the gas line and through the ASA
plug air now enters the tombstone where
it is funneled into a narrow channel
prior to entering the valve it goes
through the valve or ring and washer
around the valve spring and stops at the
valve plunger the plunger creates a seal
against the valve seat and prevents air
from continuing through the marker at
this point it is pressurized and ready
to fire the marker won't fire until the
rear bolt or Hammer is released by the
trigger the hammer weits under tension
by the compressed Drive Spring inside of
it but is held in place by the trigger
sear the dri spring pushes on the hammer
and in turn pushes on the sear the
operator squeezes the trigger which
rotates around the pin and lifts the
front of the sear the sear also rotates
around the pin until the lip of it
clears the hammer once that happens
multiple things happen
simultaneously the trigger sear is push
backwards by the sear spring and is
reset where it waits for the hammer to
return the hammer is connected by a
linkage arm to the front bolt and the
entire assembly moves together in unison
by means of the dri spring pushing on
the Hammer as it moves forward the
entire assembly builds up momentum the
front bolt is pushed forward and in turn
pushes the paintball into the detent the
detent folds downwards out of the way
and the paintball passes through the
barrel adapter into the breach end of
the barrel followed by the front bolt at
the same time the hammer enters the
power tube and the oine creates an
airtight seal the hammer then strikes
the valve pin on the valve plunger it
pushes the plunger forward and breaks
the seal inside the valve allowing the
air to escape air travels in two
different directions at this point
firstly it travels backwards into the
cavity created by the walls of the power
tube the face of the hammer and the face
of the valve this push back gas this air
builds up pressure inside of this cavity
and combined with the valve spring
begins to reset the marker by driving
the ham Hammer linkage arm and front
bolt
backwards secondly the air splits into
two halves and turns 90 on both sides
of the valve we refer to this as the
propellant gas to differentiate it from
the blowback gas here the air yet again
diverts into two directions one way is
through the side of the marker where air
powers the Cyclone or response trigger
both of which operate on the propellant
gas not the blowback gas that pushes
back the hammer the other way has the
air turn 90 and channels it forward
through four grooves located out side of
the valve if you have an older style A5
valve or a low pressure kit valve there
will be two large grooves instead of
four smaller ones once past the
tombstone the air converges in a small
pocket of the power tube where is then
funneled into the power tube small
extension which allows the front bolt to
slide back and forth the air travels
through the extension through the front
bolt and finally pushes the paintball
through the barrel now the marker has
fired and needs to reset at this point
the hammer continues traveling backwards
until the valve plunger creates a seal
against the valve seat again cutting off
Air Supply to the marker once the hammer
o-ring clears the end of the power tube
most of the gases expelled throughout
the back of the marker come from this
small cavity the momentum of the hammer
continues to drive it backwards and
compresses the Drive Spring is so
beautiful elant to use the propell the
gas
to catches the hammer and resets the
sear the marker is now ready to fire
again and that's it this may seem like a
complex operation but if you open up
your dgas marker study the parts and
move the assembly back and forth you'll
begin to understand what's going on
hopefully this video will help in
explaining the marker's operation and
will help you with things such as
assembly maintenance and upgrades stay
tuned for future videos [__] hype
okay so it's not exactly what I thought
I thought
that yeah it's actually more complicated
than I thought it it would be uh
naturally
uh all right we'll have to think about
this but I
think I think I mean if I wanted to just
write
text then it would be
easier um
okay but now we should say what kind of
resolution can we actually get because
this is the ideal resolution but it's
pretty likely that we won't even be able
to achieve
that because
of
um how much paint is actually in it and
so what we would do is we wouldn't
actually buy a gun we'd make our own gun
and I think that that would be because
because the thing is we need this whole
thing to be electronically controllable
so that all the code that drives all of
this it is completely
automated
um okay so let's let's say
um okay
now let's just see what it this
says type of images you want to
create building the gun
mechanism firing mechanism paintball
storage right so what I was initially
imagining when I was when I was out for
my run today was that I would have I was
thinking three for RGB but watching the
uh stuff made here video you actually
need four you need
CMYK and then you just have four drums
and you could load whatever color you
wanted or alternatively you just have
one drum and
there's uh some mechanism for maybe but
just the human does it swaps out which
color you're using um but it's looking
like from a cost perspective it's likely
that I'll only be able to use one color
or yeah I don't know about that building
the gun mechanism
components challenge is ensuring
accuracy and consistency yeah so I was
imagining like probably need some sort
of
uh calibration system because it's every
time you set it up you're going to set
it up
differently
um so I'll have and that's something I
don't really know
about and I was imagining just running
it off of a pie but pies are kind of
hard to get maybe I'll get get an old
pie maybe Arduino but I kind of hate
programming in Arduino I'd rather just
use
Python I yeah testing
calibration yeah yeah this is exactly
what I was talking about doing
inconsistencies in paintball flight
interesting wear and tear on
equipment cost management artistic
expression scaling
presentation uh I don't care about that
so
okay
what's the average volume of paint in a
paintball and what is its
Dimensions no no no no it's not
full pimples are not full
right
is caliber
inch
oh okay so they got the same
answer the diameter of the barrel
however in the case of paintballs the
caliber number usually closely matches
the diameter of the paintballs
themselves okay so let's just say that
we have
this
uh
okay
so let me just write that
down uh
2.5 or we'll use the real number so
let's just say
0.68 in
diameter for a
ball then we
have yeah four did it did it use um oh
nice it used python for that dude this
is so sick
4/3 pi R
cubed equal to roughly 2.7 M of paint
assuming it's
full I imagine that they're not full I
need to take a piss get some water while
turn
for
yeah I don't see any getting around
using paintballs like how else cuz you
can't just shoot paint like it's a if
it's in a liquid it's just going to get
everywhere you're not going to have any
resolution
um it's hard to estimate okay so help me
estimate the amount of paint per
whatever square
foot okay
um what kind of pressures are we dealing
[Music]
with no no no
no
what why do you have to do c to
can't you just use compressed
air what's HPA
system
interesting
yeah I don't know why they would just
cuz presume presumably you have a tank
that's connected to okay
so um and the thing is cuz I have a
compressed air tank well my dad has a
compressed air
tank and I'm guessing it gets up to high
enough pressure but the volume is pretty
big so maybe it can't have but it's this
big metal thing
um all right's shut up shut up so
then
what how do we
estimate what kind of speed we can
get
okay yeah so just tell me for a given
pressure oh interesting the dimensions
of the gun's barrrel play a role in
paintball velocity a longer Barrel can
increase accuracy but may slightly
affect speed while the bore size should
closely match the paint for optimal what
is a boore
size uh okay
the inner
diameter paintball size and weight
standard paintballs
are does caliber have anything to do
with the
weight cuz we we need to know the
density of it
too to calculate the mass of a
ball but actually we we need more than
that cuz we also need the yes so maybe
we could just look up how much it
weighs
3 to 3.5
grams
okay estimating the
velocity
to estimate the velocity of a
paintball
I don't really understand what PSI even
means we need the volume of the
air pressure times the
volume huh interesting so we're going to
need a secondary
chamber then cuz we can't just
like open the whole thing we need to
control that so we're going to need the
big tank which is pressurized then we're
going to need a smaller tank which
actually hooks up to the barrel and then
we're going to have a stopper or
something I don't know how they do
that and then this the trigger actuates
the
stopper uh the barrel
Dimensions affect how the pressure is
translated into velocity
what is that
called
um I mean we don't even need it
to we don't even need it
to go that far but
we
um we we probably need to make it go
fast enough that it'll actually
break
wow that's pretty fast dude is that
true how fast does a
paintball gun
shoot
okay oh
wait wait hold
on yeah okay yeah that's way closer what
I was
expecting it's almost traveling a
kilometer a second dude would kill
someone oh okay it said
that yeah cuz that would be totally
insane um
paintball
deformation chronograph I don't even
know what that
is oh
cool
okay
so how are we going to determine the
pixel
size right let me just ask
it
for the speed at which the paintball
hits the canvas affects the splatter
radius yeah that's that's what that's
what I was thinking is we we there's a b
there's an engineering balance of like
we want it to be high enough velocity
that we don't have to deal with too much
arcing due to
gravity but we
also want it high enough that it'll
break but not break fast enough too hard
to as to like
splatter but a paintball drips
right
okay so
now
we need to think about
um all right we'll put a pin in this and
we'll get back to uh CAD
okay good to think
about
I don't know about this whole switching
thing it's such a pain to do this on a
breadboard
but maybe we
should
what transistor do they
use
where's the cad they always have the cat
at the
end
[Music]
those are all
pots
okay so we need to look into how the
switch works
because we I don't think we got to that
last
time
okay if we assumed that the
diameter of a pixel is an
inch the canvas would be 160 ft
by 90 ft dude that's
insane yeah that's not happening
that's
crazy
for
now
and I mean we have no way
of controlling this
well
no you guys are
idiots
God I hate Reddit dude Reddit is such a
[__]
show always just asking me to log in
every time you do
anything
video wait we we actually use a with
this
shot funny should ask the loser of the
challenge has to hold up the tablet
while it's shot with this fully loaded
paper gun I have really bad hand as well
the just do
it all right let's look at
the just appears immediately soon I
press the and then you look it hit me in
the finger look watch little bit that
little shell of papt really hurts right
so this one that's a that little shell
of papt that's a lot of paint that looks
like a 3in
diameter right so this one that's at
5,000 frames a second slightly closer in
I let me just add I'm even more scared
than I was last time you ready y yeah
keep your eyes open
bang all right so this is 200 and a bit
times slower check out my open eye look
at you're like oh my eyes are open
ahes that's quality oh and it's still my
finger
again that finger is like the catchment
still just explodes so quick it yeah
quite aain like oh
open that's quality
oh so I think it's
possible to write text like very wide
[Music]
text
did you do it
again right let's get one more Central
cuz I'm not happy with
that that's from a really close
distance check it out didn't break I
didn't think it would it's good
gorilla's hard at work is that what is
gorillas in the glass like M microscopic
gorillas in the glass really just going
like nice
okay
all right so let's put a pin in
that let's go back to
CAD shell thickness and fill
quality FPS what does that even
mean
oh
interesting that's cool thing to
test so maybe you want to actually hit
it really
fast varying viscosities of the
fill okay so I want to go back to the
loop switch part
how does this thing
[Music]
work
duplicate it
again well I guess we don't really need
that one
whatever so we want to go down to the
loop
[Music]
for
than
was a loop mode for our envelope here's
how we'll Implement that you can pretty
much turn any regular envelope into a
looping envelope by using this little
circuit you just patch it in between
output on the right and input on the
left foot
and the envelope
will re-trigger continuously to make
that happen we configuring yet another
op amp as a Schmid trigger inverter
which you can think of like a what it's
a it's a it's a one bit quantizer just
say that whenever that output drops to
zero the watch doog will re-trigger the
envelope and then sit back and wait
until it's time to strike again this
works because Schmid trigger invert a
Schmid trigger inverter has two
thresholds against which it compares the
voltage we apply to its
input the three resistors up top or
rather the relation between them sets
those thresholds in our case the bottom
threshold is set at 0
volts while the top
threshold is placed around eight so when
the input drops to 0
volts so when the input drops to Z volts
the opamps output will jump to
let's
[Music]
see
then once the input rises above the 8vt
line the output will drop down to -12
Vol now you might have noticed the diode
and pull down
resistor
if we use our envelopes regular input
the maximum output voltage depends on
the set attack and suain
levels I don't really get
that
for
[Music]
oh yeah
classic classic classic
classic okay I don't fully
understand the implementation of the
schmi trigger
inverter but no
matter
okay let's just do
[Music]
it
for
[Music]
I hate that you can't undo in wire
mode
I'm going to need to look for a
switch so we need to find a footprint
for a switch
so I guess I'm going to go look for a
switch
all right and then we'll do the layout
and then we'll etch these two boards I
might want to add a dual
VCA because the VCA
has just one but I definitely have room
for two but then I got to redo all the
layouting we'll see I think having a
dual VCA would be really nice because
then you could change the amplitude of
the LFO and the oscillator
itself
I don't really have an LFO but we're
going to see about
that okay I'm going to go look for a
switch
[Music]
for
okay down to
switch
[Music]
for
okay can we get a data sheet on this
thing
[Music]
Jesus
yeah this is a single
pull what does double throw
mean that's what it is Right double
throw
f
okay this will be
cool God this thing is
disgusting
okay so we're done right we did it
all oh we didn't do this led
[__]
oh my God
classic that's the kind of thing that
drives me crazy about this
[Music]
program
I like this one's footprint
better
[Music]
uh 3
mm
[Music]
that should be
fine
for
let's see
um
for
[Music]
what does that
mean I hate that you can't copy that
it's so
annoying I feel like I've googled this
before
for
I feel like this is not a problem I feel
like if I ran the electrical rules
checker on all my other stuff it'd be
fine or I mean it would give me the same
era
[Music]
for
okay I'm curious if I
uh
[__]
okay okay so we're done with the
schematic I
guess
it's insane we're going to need two op
amps two quad op imps I mean I don't
even know if I'm going to be able to fit
this in
here oh
yeah wait we're not ready for
[Music]
that
[__]
I hate that sound it's so [__]
awful
okay
for
the switch footprint will also be a
three
pin same with
um what is the purpose of that
one that is yeah that okay so all three
of these are damn I don't think we're
going to have
room this is a pretty complex
board all these resistors are the
same but we're going to
do
[Music]
okay
[__]
can't I just put it in
there
okay okay where we at
here
[Music]
where is this after the switch to there
okay
yeah you really need two monitors for
this this one goes the plus 12 so that's
the 100k
that's R
six
that
[Music]
seriously plus 12 the ground okay 100K
and
100K the order here makes absolutely no
sense
that's a
1K
[Music]
where is
that there's so many 100ks I don't even
have that
many I think go
scaming
is that
everything which one is that one
that's a 1
M okay now we can do this control a
wait maybe doable
okay so now we
write J1
input
no I want all the JS okay
J2
power
j3 out j4 inverse
out
rv1 is the
um
sustain rv2 is um
attack rv3 is
Decay or
release okay let's do
it
so we don't use the left
side oh yeah wait and then the thing
that we always have to
do
[Music]
oh
cool
okay
J1 J2 is what
power
j3 is
output so what I'm doing is I'm
just I sort of know where the front
panel is going to be and I don't want
wires to be Tangled so that's what I'm
doing
[Music]
there
so maybe we'll have attack
oh wait no that's sustain so we want
attack
release
input
sustain hey think that's what we want to
do or
that okay then what else we got the
switch okay we need to decide where the
switch is going to
go this is not
centered okay how the hell do we start
this
thing
come on man we got to get this
done
I want to I want to finish
this okay on the other side oh man oh
man long
time I wish I could listen to music
without being freaking
copyrighted okay so I'm going to print
this
out
okay and then we can start to figure out
what we need to do
here
because 1 2
3 5 six
s
8 n
[Music]
10 and so the loop switch right so maybe
we actually want to
do cuz maybe we want to have the outputs
so maybe we want to do something like
this where the outputs are down
here connected close to there so I think
that's what I'm going to do so I'm going
to
switch these
two but then I also want I probably want
this one to be there this one to be
there and this one to be there
why actually no I think we want j4 to be
the okay so that's what we're going to
do so we're going to leave this as is
connected to j4 we're going to move this
oh
[__]
um I forget how does this
go wait is this just the buffer okay
then that's a
obious so we're good
there
what okay just all right let's just do a
sweep of all the
opamps
okay looks
good all right so then what that allows
us to do is um free up so we just need
to update PCB
right it was just a reconnection of
stuff so now the switch is close to
U1 and then the outputs are all on
U2 okay so I'm going to go get the print
out we can still arrange
this
Everybody Loves the
Sunshine my life my life my life in the
[Music]
sunshine okay let's just start with
input one I I I I don't have no
methodical way of doing this
honestly maybe the input because the
input is connected closely so maybe we
should switch these so I'm going to take
this move
it I want to move both of these
down
okay now I want to move this down we
need to move both of these
down so that we could route from
the top okay now let's just get the C1
D1 and R1
in so this is just
grounded so just do
this
we could actually put this
here uh okay fine we'll put it
there wait wait wait wait we can't do
that yet we
need
C1 we'll do this we can put it up
here then
D1 then
R1 okay so if we were to do
this then
this then we'd be all good and then this
goes down to
there
and then this just goes like
that and then what happens to okay the
one is the output so I guess we'll be on
the back plane
there
[Music]
um okay so let's get that second op amp
and that just goes like this I guess
we're already
trapped
what does this go to okay and then here
so we do page down and then here we go
like
that that's fine I'm I'm okay with
that I think but then we need to make
sure that we uh I think we should do
this okay so we don't have clearance
there so maybe we do it on the back I
actually want to get
something
okay so we have a IC holder kit thing
oh what
[Applause]
okay okay we have lots of 14
dips I know those
are here are the 14 dips okay I like the
I like the I like
these relatively well
actually the leads aren't as long as
maybe I hoped they would
be yeah that's not
ideal
uh maybe they're about the same length I
think they're a little bit
shorter right if we're going to do this
this I think they're about the same
length and we have 15 of those so we're
pretty much
set God that smells awful
okay uh what what if we did this
though oh we're breaking rules
okay how do we expand is it e no what is
it
expand
selection
you right so what if we did
this then could we get this in
there
but okay I
think that should be
okay
okay where's my
pen all
right so
then
uh let's
get I hate how I did these resistors I
don't know what the hell I was thinking
R2 R2 and R3 makes sense okay so let's
just do
this
okay
R2 okay why don't we
just put this
here
uh we'll probably need to get under it
maybe we'll go around it what does three
connect to
three I guess will be
blue so if we can route through it what
is one go to one goes to this diode so
let me do the diode
then okay so where's
D
D2 oh this is a nightmare
we could do
that and then Mo this guy
down because then we can go page down we
could go
like this this goes to the switch
we can route through the switch right
can we go through these
things
see no you see you don't have room to go
through them so they have to be on the
edges okay what does this go
to go to that diode but that diode okay
so let me just so we're going to undo
that
um okay what does this go to this goes
all the way
right okay so let's just do R2 and R3
then
dude I have no idea how to do
this we need to ground this guy no we
need to ground this guy what does this
go
to right
okay right that goes to pin
six this goes to plus 12 volts that's
kind of a pain
we don't really like
that we want to be able to get a trace
through there probably but if we do that
then maybe we can't get a trace through
there at
all honestly 1.2 is a little much I
could probably decrease it to 1
mm I mean look how thick these traces
are what the hell is up with
that okay so let's just get that
other diode in the the sustained
potentiometer that's
rv1 we can't have that there we need
sustain over
here oh jeez
je no that's okay all right
so okay so what we're going to do we're
probably going to have to move these
over
here and then sustain is here I don't
really care about the layout honestly
like the layout is not the most
important thing to me most important
thing to me is just making sure
that I do the routing properly I
guess
okay so let's get that
D3 just put this there I
guess okay that d goes there pin two
takes
R4
I guess you can go through
it this goes to ground so we can Loop
that around
perfect I guess that's
fine need move this here where does this
have to to get to this R4 needs to get
to this
diode dude I think that this is going to
be unsat
bro Maybe
not maybe
not okay so I think we have the
first block sort of done so let's go to
the switch and go on to the the envelope
core which is the attack and
release okay so first we
can tie nine and eight
together I don't care what
um
okay we're going to do the loop switch
later wait did I switch this around
before or after I printed
it I think it was
before yeah right so this is actually
U2
567 and then this is
U1
wait you on
d
okay and then this stayed the same and
these are all grounded okay so we have
this all right let's get the
okay so
now we need that resistor which is
R5 connect connects to the diode okay
yeah honestly I might put it down
here all right let's just place it what
does this go this goes to nothing so
then that goes to there this okay so D5
and
D4 okay that makes perfect sense to
me and
D5 could go there
so we get
this
this and then threes aren't even
connected so maybe we should actually
do maybe we should do
this
actually I wonder if we could change
these to two pins cuz we're only using
them as variable resistors even though
they have a pot we
could I think we're allowed to do that
right like if I go to the
schematic hey what's up this is totally
a bot guaranteed a bot account created
this
year
oh I guess not what's going
on okay what are we doing
here we're changing the footprint so
let's see if we can make these since
they're let's see if we can make them
two
pin because
then I hate this works there we go oh
thanks you too
okay
um so then we could put the two pin
here and we can move this one up so I
think I'm going to do
that all right so let's just
change we can copy
this put this
here
what okay
um
okay so if we update it does it just do
it okay
nice yeah I feel like that's a lot
better we can save some room to route
from the back and then we could actually
put
thisbe like up here since what is that
that's not grounded but it is say shared
to the same net so
then let's see this goes to pin one one
and so what if we did
this well we can't do that but we could
do
this okay that seems pretty nice and
then we need that cap to
ground okay but then what we need to do
what does this go
to that switch Yeah so that switch needs
to get routed to
the
well okay wait let's try to put in this
last
diode let's just put this here for
now because yeah we need so we need this
this what does that go
[Music]
do
okay
so pin two yeah goes to the
non-inverting
input is there any advantage to staying
on
Blue okay let's get this
here these get
tied but then what does it go to it
needs to go
to
oh really oh I was under the impression
that no I thought we switched
that I thought we said
that
H I think I might need to switch that
back
cuz
[__] um cuz maybe we what is what does
this go do
then that goes to the switch but we
could just put that down
there right so the looping stuff do we
actually want to put the looping stuff
here got
darn it maybe we switch it
back I got to think about it because no
I maybe I'll just do it because the
amount of components on there is
probably too much for me to even
fit but okay so we need to switch this
back so our
um oh wait I forgot to give follow I
don't I give follows to bot to non Bots
but I turn off
notifications no streams
huh suspicious
okay all right so we're moving
this
we're switching these
again okay so this goes
XY and then we want to do this
move then
here okay let's update the uh
[Music]
PCB okay so now I think so the outputs I
was going to put here but I think I
might actually want
to Let's
see we could probably move these
down
slightly and then I could
fit
j3
in here like that so this would still
go to there
this right we still need
the okay so we which resistor is that
it's
r10 okay I think that's okay we need to
go page
up and then here and this is just
buffered so that's okay and that's our
output this is grounded we could get
ground out from
here um we don't want to box oursel in
with power though because we need to
think about powering you too but
honestly this has gone a lot you know
what's funny cuz like when you import
the components it looks like way more
components than it is but then you like
start doing it and you're like actually
this is going to
fit did okay so we grounded that we got
that this goes to there which is
good so what is all this stuff this
needs to go
where
right so that's important we should
leave that
[Music]
in because what is that that
is pin
[Music]
12 right
okay but there's a lot we need to
connect this to so we're probably going
to have to route from under then so
we'll probably have to go page
down something like
that
all right so let's try to
move the op amp
up
okay let's do
that it's crazy how much space I
have let's do
that so wait which one's plus minus this
is
plus and this is minus so I want to
Route minus from
here seems kind of
dumb
routing is so time consuming
man okay wait but we can get blue out
from under
there so why don't we put
R9
here we move this up a
lot maybe
not okay
R8 is going to go yeah it's here it's
just a simple feedback path
thing
R15 easy
peasy
it is however going to be important to
uh do this
somehow oh I like that I've never
noticed that
before
sh
okay so we have all of j4s
done but we need um
oh we need this transistor nonsense
where are we going to put
that the status
light oh wait did I I put the I picked
the wrong footprint here
because but should I just delete this
status
light the reason for that would
be how the hell am I going to mount
it actually if I use acrylic front plane
panel then we're
good so I'll do
that okay so we have R9 we have R8 now
we need
the two resistors that connect
to
pin three we need these
guys you can't do
that
okay let's just put them
there let's do
this
all right we need to do
this having two layers is so
clutch single layer routing is like a
crazy sodoku
game
Lexi okay where's R11 at all right let's
do the
looping Schmid trigger
thing so pin five where is that that's
this
no this goes to oh
perfect see on the one hand I like that
but on the other hand that seems like
super super inefficient like why does
that seem bad mainly cuz you just have
this big ass road down the
middle okay let's get R12 what does
seven go to seven is we got to get seven
now wait is that a
diode yeah but we want the
diode oh right okay we need to move that
diode back out cuz that diode is
not oh
[__] okay well in that case we need to
take this we need to move this
in some
more then I want to move this
out and then what we do is we get can we
get ground from somewhere else where is
this ground even
going can we just delete
this let's just say we get
ground
I don't even hate
that it's kind of
ugly
okay
[Music]
all right so what are we doing we need
to figure
out this ground this oh yeah this diode
and resistor to ground so D6 where did
we do we even move it okay me get this
back out of
here
okay r13 needs to get handled where do
seven going SE yeah this is dumb okay
delete okay let's get
r113 which is in the feedback
path that one
goes like this so then we can
go
boom boom and then the diode connects
to
but the problem is we still need to get
this thing all the way up to the
switch
wait is that just cuz this needs to be
oh
yeah but no this is what we
need wait we can do
that I was imagining we needed to go all
the way around
okay so let's leave that for the
router okay where's that resistor to
ground R14 where's R12 R12 needs to go
to ground oh cool so I think we just put
that okay so maybe we want to switch
this cuz this goes to here but we could
probably right so I think what I'm going
to do is I'm going to
move this out of
here we're going to take this we going
move it and rotate it we're going to put
this here then we can just ground
this
whatever we do
this that could go with the red page
up two layers is
sick you don't even have to think you
can just
route okay I think I need to go page
down and then get the diode out from
that
way this is kind of
gross
single pole double throat yeah yeah
single pole double throat
what twitch will mute but uh YouTube
YouTube doesn't
mute it just gives you the copyright
warning okay so we're almost done with
this
Fang
what else do we
have oh yeah
R14 goes to ground as well we need that
so I think I actually messed this
up no this is
okay okay what did we
forget we forgot the
transistor
oh we forgot this
capacitor do we have
room it just goes to ground right what's
its
purpose
I think we can just do
that what else is there okay this
diode that's the LED
right can we get that there if we can
get that there I'm happy with
it now this I imagine is going to be
more
okay
so all right first
pass let's get all the tracks done or
out of
here now Auto router do your
thing
for
I think I should do
this and then
move then we can move this up oh a
lot let's see is there any other weird
stuff
okay I mean this is looking pretty good
to
me I don't know about this transistor
diode nonsense this is a little weird to
me I don't like that plus 12 volt thing
yeah I don't I don't like this Trace at
all you can't get this can you get this
through here this
way
okay okay so what we're going to
do move this transistor
here move this down
here
all right I think I got to go inside
really quick while the gardeners do
something
for
false alarm
Okay where did the base go
to
okay then I also want
to move
everything except for
this
down
just we have a little bit more clearance
there I'm going to take a second to
stretch and hydrate and
[Music]
[__]
okay
this looks a little
goofy why don't I just put
this
here and
then take all of this move
this like
here all right so global dele
tracks and
Vias route
again is that a
via
what is that why would it ever need to
do
this dude it's doing some silly [__]
right now I've never seen this
yeah backed itself into a corner I might
be
[__] I wonder what I did
wrong I mean bro has so many Vias
that
bro literally has so many
vs did it route completely though cuz if
it did I'm willing to just take take
it bro Widow we has so
many so we didn't end up routing ground
over there we ended up routing ground
here which is fine there's one via guys
I think I'm ready to send it I feel like
this is
good I think I just want to
do that no wait maybe one
more okay
all right so we sending
it I think we're about to start etching
[Music]
Brethren okay and then
our
um then I guess we want to just add
mounting
holes
for
being able to do two layers is so
freaking
clutch it's going to be a pain in the
ass to get these 14 dips in I
think do I have any room at
all to increase their
size
cuz
Okay
I mean if this via is the only reason we
need to
get oh it's cuz this
[Music]
ground wait what the hell is this this
is to get the switch over there
uh
yeah that's kind of annoying
man yeah it's kind of
annoying so the only thing really the
only last concern before we worki etch
this is
should
I try to edit the footprint of the dip
14s to make the the
uh let me grab one of my existing boards
and
see how
painful it is I don't remember it
being particularly painful
uh um okay should we try to do the Dual
VCA
thing okay let's just see what
happens wait was that pad yeah
you can't bulk edit
pads
diameter
okay wait so here's what we want to do
we don't want to do this like
this here you go
here
[Music]
[__]
sake ooh I kind of like that
I kind of like that a
lot give me just a little bit more
copper but we also
want we want that we need the whole
diameter to be
slightly
big wait that doesn't look
right is that even going to
work I mean it says it's the same width
but see how much wider look at look at
how small this oval this um rectangle is
what
what is it just m can I do control shift
M it's shorter
though
I mean
yeah
[Music]
h
oh
for
and then at some point we need to up
update the uh power supply schematic to
include
fuses but
uh I don't know what I'm going to do
about these [__] power supplies
okay hey what's the difference between
these
for
I'm inclined to try
this but how big are the
holes we need to make the holes a
millimeter
because okay so
let's okay we're going to try something
new I'm going to duplicate
this
oh
yeah can I read that what does that say
oh what is that wait can we get an ALT
three on
that yeah I mean that's pretty close to
what we
want I would
like okay I can't bulk
edit all pads
[Music]
is
okay fine [__] it I'm tired of
this
okay okay we'll go through the numbering
later
pad
I'm sure that it'll
say oh wait wait we should leave
[__]
oh my [__]
god
wait wait wait am I [__] oh my God
I'm [__]
did
we're taking a gamble on this
taking a big gamble on
this okay so let's go
[Music]
here
all right let's see how this is going to
work pad
three that's okay that's okay it should
it that's okay that error is
fine
does it just do it is that going to work
can we go to
inspect design rules
Checker we just need a
reroute I think we can do
this
maybe we made him too
big I think it's
fine I think it's
fine this is going to take forever
though
bunch of freaking clearance violations
guys oh come on you can do
it
oh
brother maybe we made him too big wait
did we get
it let's open up design rules Checker so
we have one via
still which I'm totally fine with by the
way like I'm okay with a
via a via every now and
then
where is
that okay
yeah right but it's just these on use
see they're all
you wait
actually yeah but they're all related to
you
pads
okay I'm fine with
that I mean we were going pretty crazy
on the clearance I think it's like a mil
I think it's a
millimeter no no no it's 8 it's point8
but it's still
like pretty big
clearances
wow it took two
hours that's
annoying
okay
I guess I'm going to call that
finalized let me think about it from a
panel perspect wrong
one let's think about the panel so we're
going to
have I put my notebook away J1 is J1 is
the input Square wave or
whatever rv1 is sustain
value j3
is output
one
okay oh
okay these two the
ver
okay so attack release and then inverted
output and then the
switch I don't hate
this
I love the auto router so
much okay so for this one oh come on
dude I have so much room to add
the okay let me commit this
stuff
okay
[Music]
for
we need to redo
this we're using almost all the right
Footprints we want to reuse we want to
use our new dip 14 we need to move you
one this we probably want to do
something
like
this
then somehow like
that and then we're good to go
but we need to fix the
schematic okay should I really do
this
okay I'm going to do it
so okay here's a
VCA instead of grounding
these we're basically going to do this
oh wait's unselect this unselect this
copy this paste
it
h
well this is going to be a
pain okay but well and then we still got
to do the
filter but I want to mess around with
the filter on the breadboard cuz I feel
like the resonance was messed up I don't
know what I did wrong
but I was able to get the filter kind of
working
but there's a lot of problems with
it I'm also really running out of 100K
resistance
SS all right I'm going to quit being a
bit let me look at the
spreadsheet it just duplicated
everything that's
perfect
all that work
gone oh wait wait wait we forgot
something
no bro don't
crash don't
crash
okay
fine do we did it does it still have all
my [__] okay
can we do that
is it too bold to send it on this new
dip 14
thing we're going to find
out
Everybody Loves the
Sunshine am I still
live yeah okay I don't know why the
twitch notification went
away uh okay so that's good let's open
up our
PCB
dude
see that seems like so many
components okay so I'm making the
executive DEC oh
[__] that this bad
boy needs to go like this with +
12 facing
upward
okay then we need
our okay I'm going to print out this
schematic then I
want to make my little list of the
JS all
right
for
for all of these knobs we're going to
also have to look up what their values
are cuz uh we don't have that in the
bomb cuz mounted components we sort of
lose that information
because they don't actually go into
layouting
so okay let's get the top
done
bab we can get a knob okay so it'll go
knob
is that enough
room we can afford to move this down a
little
bit
it's so annoying it doesn't actually
give me
in it gives me in multiples of the
all right come on here we
go whatever we can do that if we wanted
[Music]
you work
backwards
[Music]
for
r10
it's kind of
stupid
I just have no basis of theory of like
how do we actually do
this like it's just such a difficult
problem to do it
optimally I feel like if we just place
them like we're not going
[Music]
to
[__] this is so painful
R
R9 R
seven oh no we got these flipped
around
for
[Music]
[__] this is starting to be my least
favorite part
man where does rv1 go
to I don't even know what that's
for honestly the transistor amp I just
don't even understand
stand make it a [__] fool of
myself wait we did this all
wrong I totally boxed myself in here
son of a
[__]
for
jeez these clearances are
bogus I don't know how we're going to
get power to this
thing oh boy okay
so
okay let's start
[Music]
over
okay that's about as tight as you get
it I think we probably have room to
also
okay
now we get our first
transistor
R8 we'll put them in the middle how's
that then we can do
R 10 and 11
then I don't know how that's
possible
this R15 thing is crazy
town it's possible we could
do it's possible we could do
this
oh
really I don't hate
that
for you can't get
there still
no
how much do you need to move this
[__] but then I should be able to move
[Music]
this
but this is all bogus because where is
ground we don't even know where ground
is well we'll have to figure it
out oh
[__] the CV stuff is impossible because
we need to get all the way to
here
okay well if we don't care about having
right to left for input and
output
[Music]
for then we could
try getting these guys over
here makes no sense at all
but sorry
wait then you have like inputs and an
output
for
where we going to put this
RV oh
boy this one's a
doozy
a
okay so then we can put this way
up input output some
control oh we could have also just
flipped it but okay we might need to
flip it for the bottom one then
meaning
this
way I might just do the whole
thing not symmetrically which is kind of
awkward right I guess it doesn't need to
be symmetric because we actually have
more room on the bottom because we don't
have power I mean we don't have like a
power
connector
so let's see what we're up to we have
the voltage divider then we
want this is just
ground okay so then why don't we move
this guy like that where does this
go that goes to r s okay
look we have all of this to do for
ground so if we just did that to make
sure then
R8 we have no
problem doing it like
this
okay
uh 12 and
13 okay so I I think we should figure
out the second transistor
then a 12 and
13 basically you can go just like
this where does this go okay
then this goes to here which goes to
here and this goes to okay to around
right so divider then this goes to
okay
[Music]
actually we probably don't want to do
that we probably want to have
this
but then we want to
do like that ground can be
out and then this goes to there but then
you have plus and minus still
there okay so we did all
that now we just got to get to the op
amp
for
okay now we got to get these
guys wait that pin one or two pin
one go the R8
but this goes to way more than
that oh bro
brother this is just a painfully diff
difficult
problem it's like people playing
sidoku
all right well
whatever 14 and
10 and
oh there it
is I don't know about all
that and then you have
[Music]
this
it's a
doozy this front panel is going to be an
absolute
nightmare
okay so let's then
do the CV processing
can we do
that the r7's an important one I
guess
because we got to get it all the way
over
there oh nice pin three is just
grounded that's pretty
hype
I don't know what we're going to do with
this
okay so we have the opportunity to get
ground in there but how are we going to
get plus and Min okay I think we can do
it if we tried to
do
this can we get it in there
though hm
h no we kind of need it in there we can
make it
red but then ground is kind of [__]
where's our
ground H maybe we're
okay
for
okay I feel like we're getting
there where's
R4 near J5 R4 R5 and R
six okay so that's all pretty perfect
actually
okay bro I'm like stressed out right now
doing this routing stuff is
painful
[Music]
all right so I think I'm going to do
this I think I'm going to actually
switch so actually maybe it's already
switched so 8 n and
on that
side which means
what right so it's already flipped so
what that
means is that we' put J what's the
corresponding j4 it's j9 put
j9
here I don't know how we're going to get
ground if I just press V does it give me
a v
no
I think we'll be able to figure that
out I don't want to redo everything by
flipping it I mean these definitely need
to be over here
but you know you can't win them
all
okay but
there's there's probably something I'm
missing with the top one
anyway maybe
not okay if that's the case then here's
what we're going to
do put this down here and J2 is CV so
our second CV is
j6 maybe what I could do is not print it
mirror I feel like that'd be very
confusing
though
now we need to do the transistors first
I learned this you have to do the
transistors
first but I'm not going to
boom 29 30 we can just put
these
okay j6 is here I think I should
probably start
with where's
j7 so it's okay so it's the it's the
corners to the middle this is pretty bad
okay now we need these two this divider
which is 17 and 19 where did 18
go
did do something
funky they like interlace to them I
don't really get
that
but this probably gets to more
stuff okay that's
fine does this one go to+
h
oh that one goes
to it goes to
there maybe we flip them
around
because then J
N no I think what the answer
is that this just needs to be around
here
so let's get
this all right we are we like nearing
the end well we don't even know honestly
we don't
know it could be that this
is all
wrong okay so 17 and 19 are in 23 yeah
why did it interlace them I really don't
like that 23 and 2
5 go to the
transistors oh okay so we could put them
there oh and that's grounded so that's
perfect okay so this is all the CV
processing resistors
what about 18 18 is also
right
we need the second
transistor
bro
R seven
[__] wait we might be able to do
this
for
[__] I feel like I'm hitting a wall
okay uh so do we have the two transist
ision so these got okay so what's the
equivalent of the R7 on this
one it's
r24 it's an important
resistor what does this go
to this could go anywhere plenty of
room
oh
nice well actually no wait we have
ground from there we don't even need
this Trace so we could do a whole lot
more since we we could do
ground I guess ground oh that's actually
clutch okay so we could totally get rid
of what is that is that the ground
one we need
this but we don't need that other
one okay so we have
ground
I I want ground this
way wait did it just like undo it
all I I wanted my ground like
this and then we have positive and
negative and then we can use this to
Branch out from everywhere oh
[__] wait we can just do that's
easy oh that's easy yeah yeah yeah we're
good bro we are Bing
chilling
and then we just use
Blue Dude two it's actually impossible
to do anything with a single
layer all right so I feel like power is
kind of coming together what do we need
we
need
uh CV processing resistors are all good
or what this goes a
plus could we get power out and around
over there too I guess we could there's
nothing stopping us I guess we need a
vaa well not
necessarily well
we we'd go Blue then
red or we could make this wider we could
do this
is well no you need a
via you need a
via VI via
VIA what if we just did this and now all
the parts are in where does this go this
goes to Plus plus and minus
so
honestly I'm curious what happens if I
just do this super low effort just place
them
wherever the amount of Labor that has
been
spent on doing this before people made
Auto routers is probably way way too
high no
way easy now we have a dual
VCA with zero Vias and insane
clearances dud this thing is the best
you you just don't have to worry about
anything this is so hype how did power
get routed ground goes to
there and it goes
under oh
baby this board is not well
done
I guess these gardeners aren't coming so
I guess I could start to I really hope
they don't come later we could I guess
we could do the filter but I'm really
kind of burnt out of Kad for the or at
least Kad PCB editing for the for the
minute
dude look how bad this board is this
board doesn't even make sense like we
have two
copies why is it that they're not
symmetric at
all like where did those two resistors
go the R3
equivalent where's R R3
R3 goes to
J2 which is
J
j6 so I guess I just put all the
resistors
there okay so we need to add mounting
holes I forgot to add mounting
holes so envelope we just want to
do without
connection
oh gosh
okay 2.1
[Music]
mm
oh wait we forgot
to they're the pilot holes but they're
also the mounting holes I guess
well no that's not ex that's not
entirely
true they're just the pilot
holes or the whatever you want to call
them
that's cutting it really
close
it's
fine okay
um I guess I'll get the ironing board
and we can
just
start maybe you'll
stop the
stream let's see how long is this cuz I
think the more streams the better if
they're more
Atomic
um my main concern is
uh
all right maybe I'll make some
food okay peace I'll be
back